Welcome to the eLearning
session Getting
Started With Ensemble: Record
Mapper - An Introduction.
The Record Mapper is
a graphical interface
accessed from the
Ensemble Management portal
to define flat file
structure to bring data
into or out of Ensemble.
The flat file can either
have delimited or fixed
width fields.
The need for custom
code is eliminated
and all classes are
automatically created.
These classes can then be
used with pre-built Ensemble
Business Services or
Business Operations.
Once the record has been brought
into Ensemble via record mapper
class, it becomes
an Ensemble Message
and can be processed
like any other Message.
The graphical
interface allows you
to define the delimiters that
are used in the flat file
to separate fields
and terminate records.
It is recommended that you open
a sample file in the Record
Mapper while
defining the fields.
This way, you can
immediately see any errors.
Let's take a look at an example
of an existing Record Mapper
definition.
You can see that we have
given this record map
a name--
DemoRecordMap.Map.Delimited--
along with a Target Class.
While this Record Map
definition is delimited,
we have the option of
defining fixed width as well.
We define our record terminator
character and the separators
that are used in the file.
Once this is defined, we
can then define each field
in the delimited file
in the correct order
so that we can extract
the appropriate data when
this Record Map definition
is used in Ensemble.
As an example,
the field PersonID
we've defined as an integer.
And you can see that
it is the first field.
The second field is Age.
That is also an integer.
The sample data will
reflect the field
once we save the definition.
Let's see how this
Record Mapper definition
would be used in an actual
Ensemble Production.
Here, we have a Production that
will make use of the mapper.
makes use of the Record Mapper
we were just looking at.
If we take a look at
the Business Service,
Delimted.RecordMap.FileService,
we
can see that the class
that is used for this
is a pre-built
Ensemble component.
And we're using a
standard adapter class
for a file inbound adaptor.
Since it is a file
inbound adapter,
we need to define the file
location and the File Spec
for the flat files in
the operating system that
will be pulled into Ensemble
for this Business Service.
We've also defined
an archive directory.
We can also see that
this Business Service
will be sending its message to
the two Business Operations.
And we've defined the
Record Mapper definition
that we were just looking at
as the record map that will be
used for this Business Service.
If we take a look at
the Business Operation,
we can see that we have
similar information here.
We are using a standard
pre-built Ensemble
component for record
mapper file operations.
And we have defined
our output path
and the name of the file that
will be in the output path.
And we also have defined
the appropriate record
map that will be used.
Let's see how this will be used.
In the appropriate
directory, we're
going to paste a file that
has the delimited information.
As you can see, it has
been picked up by Ensemble,
has been processed.
And if we take a look
at the in archive,
we can see that it
has been archived.
And if we take a look
at the out directory,
we can see that the
output has been put
into the appropriate location.
Let's go back to Ensemble so
that we could view the messages
related to this Production.
And here we have the message
header, message body.
As you can see, each field that
we've defined in the record map
is one of the field in
the body of our message.
And we also can see
the complete trace.
This was done without any
code using the Record Mapper
and Ensemble
pre-built components.
Let's build a simple
new record map.
So in the Ensemble portal,
we will choose New.
And we're going to
change the record map
name to Scan.RecordMap.
We will also adjust
the target class name
to Scan.EmployeeRequest.
This will be a delimited file
with a carriage return line
feed as the record separator.
And we're going to add a
colon as the field separator.
In order to help field
definition a little easier,
let's bring in a sample file.
So I'll click on
Select Sample File.
And we're going to choose
SampleDataBusiness.txt.
As you can see, we have the
colon as the field separator.
And there are four fields.
We have a person's name
and ID and email address
and some text.
By clicking on Add
a New Field, we
will be able to put
our first field in.
The first field will be Name.
And it will be a string.
Adding a new field, this one
will be ID and is an integer.
Our next field is going
to be the ToAddress, which
is a string.
And our final one will
be the email text,
which is also a string.
Now, once we save this, we
will see our sample data
displayed with the appropriate
fields as we have just defined.
And we can see that
everything is correct.
At this point, we're
going to generate
all of the classes
for the record map.
And as we can see,
we have created
two new classes,
one for the data
and one for the request message.
This record map is now ready
for use in a Production.
Before we actually use
this in a Production,
let's take a look at the classes
that were actually generated.
Here, we have the Record Map.
And we can see the four
fields we have defined
and the various
methods that are needed
to do the maintenance for this.
We also have the EmployeeRequest
which uses the same four
fields as properties.
This is the persistent
class for this message.
Here, we have an
Ensemble Production
that already has an
output Business Operation.
As you can see, we are using
a pre-built Ensemble component
for the file operation and
using a standard file outbound
adapter.
We have defined
our File Path where
the data will be stored
in the operating system
and we have defined the
use of Scan.RecordMap
as the Record Map for
this Business Operation.
Let's add a new
Business Service.
This Business Service is going
to utilize the record map file
service.
And we're going to
call this EmailScan.
And it will be enabled.
Now let's add the appropriate
definitions that we
need for this Business Service.
The File Path where our
files will be located
is the same that we
were using previously.
The File Spec is
specific for the one file
that we wish to process, which
is SampleDataBusiness.txt.
The Archive Path will be the
same that we were using before.
The Target Config is going to be
the output Business Operation.
And the Record Map
that we will use
is the one that we just
created-- Scan.RecordMap.
We will apply these settings,
start the Production,
and put our file into
the appropriate directory
for processing by
the Production.
As we look at the archive,
here's our archive file.
And we have our
output file as well.
We can also take a
look at the messages,
as we should have some messages
that were processed here.
And here's our trace.
And as you can see,
the body of the message
is that structure
that we've defined.
And this data should
be recognizable.
You have been watching Getting
Started with Ensemble-- Record
Mapper, An Introduction.